# The Chess Merida Unicode TrueType font

## Introduction

**Chess Merida Unicode** is a TrueType font that was first designed by Armando Hernandez Marroquin in
February 5, 1998. This package contains a new version of that font, with the major difference that the
glyphs are now mapped to Unicode to allow portable usage in HTML. Actually I created this version so that
it can be used along with the [HTMLTTChess](https://github.com/xeyownt/htmlttchess) script, a javascript
I wrote to ease writing of chessboard positions in HTML.

The font is renamed to Chess Merida Unicode in order to avoid confusion with the previous versions since
the mapping Unicode is not compatible with the previous versions.

## Using the Chess Merida Unicode font with HTMLTTChess

It is critical to use the version provided here to view chessboards generated by
[HTMLTTChess](https://github.com/xeyownt/htmlttchess). Besides being remapped to Unicode, this version
contains additional glyphs needed for the rendering of color chessboards. For this, either the font must
be installed on the client, or delivered to the font via CSS webfonts.

## History and license information

Armando Hernandez Marroquin released the font as freeware, so obviously this new version is freeware as
well.  I hope you'll find this version useful. This is actually my first step in the vast world of
typography, so if you have comments or suggestion, don't hesitate to contact me. Of course, all credits
related to the beauty of the fonts should go to Armando Hernandez Marroquin. If interested, you can find
other fonts from him [here](http://www.dafont.com/armando-hernandez-marroquin.d420).

### v1.0 (February 5, 1998)
* First version of the font (by Armando Hernandez Marroquin).
* Mapping to Unicode.
* Available [here](http://www.enpassant.dk/chess/downl/merid_tt.zip) or in first commit on
  [GitHub](https://github.com/xeyownt/chess_merida_unicode).

### v1.1 (August 12, 1998)
* Second version of the font (by Armando Hernandez Marroquin).
* Mapping to Symbol.
* Extra figurine glyphs with different vertical alignment to allow in-text movement notation.

### v1.2 (August 13, 2007)
* Third version of the font (by Michaël Peeters).
* Mapping to Unicode.
* Font renamed to Chess Merida Unicode to avoid mapping compatibility problem with the previous version.
* Extra glyphs for top and right coordinates (simple / double border).
* Extra glyphs for border-less coordinates.
* Extra glyphs to allow color rendering in HTML (dark square and figure enveloppes).
* Small fix on the black knight.
* Modified keymap to increase compatibility across browsers.
* Modified font metrics (to prevent as much as possible white pixel lines between board rows).
* Redesigned coord. glyphs to use components instead for uniform rendering.
* Redesigned border glyphs for better rendering at small resolution.
* Manually hinted all coord. glyphs for better rendering and consistent weight at all resolutions.

## Installing the Chess Merida Unicode TrueType font

The installation procedure is similar to any other fonts. Here are some more detailed instructions depending on your platform:

Platform | Instructions
---------|--------------
Linux    | On Linux, there are several possibilities. A way to do this, at least on my system (OpenSUSE 10.x), is to simply copy the file in directory `.fonts` in your home directory (ie. just type in a console `cp chess_merida_unicode.ttf ~/.fonts`). Please check that there is no other version of the font available on the system. Also it is safer to *quit and restart* your browser after installation.<br/>Font rendering is greatly improved if *hinting/anti-aliasing* is activated. Please check your Linux distribution documentation for more information.
Windows  | To install the font on Windows, you simply have to copy the file `chess_merida_unicode.ttf` into the "fonts" directory of Windows main directory (typically `C:\Windows\Fonts`). In case you have an older version of the font already installed, you must first delete that version before installing the new one. Also it is safer to *quit and restart* your browser after installation.<br/>On Windows XP, font rendering is greatly improved if *ClearType* is enabled on the client machine. Check out [Microsoft's online ClearType Tuner](http://www.microsoft.com/typography/ClearType/tuner/Step1.aspx) for more information.
Mac OSX  | You simply need to drag&drop the file in the fonts directory of system directory. Also it is safer to *quit and restart* your browser after installation.  

## Keymap

See file [chess_merida_unicode.html](chess_merida_unicode.html) for the complete keymap.

[//]: # ( vim: set tw=105: )
